Intermediate Contributing Page: Update Work from a local clone section (#16748)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/contribute/intermediate.md

You only need to clone the repository once per physical system where you work
on the Kubernetes documentation.

> 1.  Create a fork of the `kubernetes/website` repository on GitHub. In your

Reviewer: The current page mentions “_If you have not done so,_ …”&mdash;you're intentionally removing that phrase, right?

Author: Yes. I thought it was redundant. Am I overstepping?

Reviewer: Nope! Go for it, just wanted to check your intent.

    web browser, go to
    [https://github.com/kubernetes/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website)
    and click the **Fork** button. After a few seconds, you are redirected to
    the URL for your fork, which is `https://github.com/<github_username>/website`.

2.  In a terminal window, use `git clone` to clone the your fork.

      ```bash
      git clone git@github.com/<github_username>/website
      ```

      The new directory `website` is created in your current directory, with
      the contents of your GitHub repository. Your fork is your `origin`.

> 3.  Change to the new `website` directory. Set the `kubernetes/website` repository as the `upstream remote`.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
3.  Change to the new `website` directory. Set the `kubernetes/website` repository as the `upstream` remote.
```

Author: done

      ```bash
      cd website

>       git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes.git

Reviewer 2: Shouldn’t this point to website?
```suggestion
      git remote add upstream https://github.com/kubernetes/website.git
```

Author: Yes.

Reviewer: D'oh, I missed that!

      ```

> 4.  Confirm your `origin` and `upstream` repositories

Reviewer: (minor, optional)
```suggestion
4.  Confirm your `origin` and `upstream` repositories:
```

Author: I used a '.' to match the punctuation in the previous steps.

terminology), use the following workflow to be sure your work is based on the
most up-to-date version of that branch.

1.  Update your website fork (`origin`) from kubernetes/website (`upstream`).
    Fetch both the `upstream` and `origin` remotes. Merge your `origin` with `upstream`
    and push the changes to your `origin`. Your fork is now up-to-date with kubernetes/website.

      ```bash
      git checkout master
      git fetch origin
      git fetch upstream
      git merge upstream/master
      git push -f origin      
      ```

2.  Create a local working branch based on the branch you decided is the most
    appropriate. This example assumes you are using `master`.

>       ```bash

Reviewer: I like the original approach, of branching from `upstream/master`. I think it will help people who are new to Git avoid making a few kinds of mistake.

@aimeeu does that make sense? If you're keen on plain `git checkout -b <my_new_branch>`, can you explain why you prefer that?

Author: Honestly, I don't understand why the original text uses `git checkout -b <my_new_branch> upstream/master` . I've never seen that before and have never used it. We are creating a local branch that we push to our fork, so I just don't get the whole upstream/master part.  `upstream/master` is not used in the [Kubernetes GitHub Workflow](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/github-workflow.md) guide either... and thus more confusion.

Reviewer: If the reader has mangled their local `master` branch, their PR will start off from that mangled local clone. Branching from `upstream/master` is safer because mangling `upstream/*` is much less likely.

I have _definitely_ seen people mangle their local `master` branch. Heck, I've done it (and noticed).

Author: @sftim - what kinds of mistakes? Maybe I'm making them and just don't know it. :)  I appreciate all feedback so I can make this as clear as possible.

Author: Thanks @sftim!

Reviewer: Hope I've explained, can go into more detail if that's useful.

Author: To get more clarity on branching from upstream/master (beyond not wanting to branch from my own fork because I may have foobarred it, which is always a possibility...), I posted some [specific questions ](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C1TU9EB9S/p1570736679005700) in #sig-contribex about the differences between the Docs and Community github workflows. Christoph Blecker provided very detailed answers. TL;DR because this doc's workflow does not
```
git checkout master
git fetch origin
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
git push -f origin
```
, you must **always** create a local working branch from upstream/master.  

To be honest, I haven't been using the workflow defined in this document. Rather, I've been using one very similar to the Community GitHub workflow: before each new PR, update my fork from upstream, then branch from my fork (passed to me by Zach and Jennifer Rondeau).  
```
git checkout master
git fetch origin
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
git push -f origin
```

Reviewer: I'm still doing a bit of a sucking-on-a-lemon face when I see `git push -f origin`. But that might well just be me!

Author: That's an image that's going to stick with me for the weekend!

Author: Changed back to `git checkout -b <my_new_branch> upstream/master` with explanation; added `--force-with-lease` to sections that previously used `-f`.

terminology), use the following workflow to be sure your work is based on the
most up-to-date version of that branch.

1.  There are three different copies of the repository when you work locally:

> local, upstream, and remote. Fetch both the origin and upstream remotes. This

Reviewer: This wording is fine. If you want to given extra clarity to readers, change the first “remote” in this line to “your fork”, or words to that effect.

Author: Thanks for catching that. On second look, it should be `origin`.

    updates your cache of the remotes without actually changing any of the copies.

      ```bash
      git fetch origin
      git fetch upstream
      ```

    This workflow deviates from the one defined in the Community's [GitHub
    Workflow](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/github-workflow.md).

>     You are not merging your local copy of `master` with `upstream/master` and then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In this workflow, you do not need to merge your local copy of `master` with `upstream/master` before
```

    pushing the updates to your fork. That step is not required in

>     `kubernetes/website` because you are not building from your fork.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this works better?
```suggestion
    `kubernetes/website` because you are basing your branch on the upstream repository.
```

> 2.  Create a local working branch based on the branch you decided is the most

Reviewer 2: Should we mention when to base on `upstream/master` versus when to base on `upstream/dev-1.<x>`?

```suggestion
2.  Create a local working branch based on the most appropriate upstream branch.
```

Author: @zacharysarah - good question! That's the original text (just renumbered). When would docs base on `upstream/dev-1.<x>`?

Reviewer 2: @aimeeu For feature developers during the release cycle.

>     appropriate. This example assumes you are using `master`. Because you didn't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This example assumes you are basing work on `upstream/master`. Because you didn't
```

Author: @zacharysarah - since you are suggesting changes to the original text that I didn't modify (merely renumbered), going forward should I reword original text for clarity?

> update your local master to match upstream/master in the previous step, you need

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
update your local master to match `upstream/master` in the previous step, you need
```
(and similar on the next line)

    remote.

      ```bash

>       git push -f origin <my_new_branch>

Reviewer: To me, `git push -f origin <my_new_branch>` is training a bad habit. I recommend *not* including the `-f` flag at this point.

Author: @sftim - I couldn't push without the `-f` flag. Also,  this is another case of where the Docs docs deviates from the developer [docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/github-workflow.md#6-push), which uses the `-f` flag. So do we match what the developer contrib docs say or deviate with explanation?  Does it have to do with the git version? I'm using 2.20.1

Reviewer: At this point the reader is pushing a new branch so should not need `-f` (or `--force-with-lease`, the safer version of `--force`).

Author: The first push, yes. After that, `-f` is required or git throws an error (at least it does for me).  I'm going to ask the SIG Contribex folks why their doc uses `-f`.

Author: I changed -f to --force-with-lease. I agree that we do not want to create bad habits.

    your changes applied. This is how reviewers will check your changes.

9.  If you notice that more changes need to be made, or if reviewers give you
    feedback, address the feedback locally and push another commit.

    ```bash
    git commit -a --amend
    ```

>     - -a: commit all changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `-a`: commit all changes
```

>     - --amend: amend this commit to my previous commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `--amend`: amend the previous commit, rather than creating a new one
```

>     A editor will open so you can update your commit message if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    An editor will open so you can update your commit message if necessary.
```

Author: I think you have eagle eyes. LOL.  I admit I've not been at my best this week due to a virus and will do better double-checking my own work going forward.

    **Details** link goes to a staged version of the Kubernetes website with
    your changes applied. This is how reviewers will check your changes.

9.  When more changes need to be made, address the feedback locally and `amend`
your original commit.

    ```bash
    git commit -a --amend
    ```

    - `-a`: commit all changes
    - `--amend`: amend the previous commit, rather than creating a new one

    An editor will open so you can update your commit message if necessary.

    If you use `git commit -m` as in Step 4, you will create a new commit rather
    than amending changes to your original commit. Creating a new commit means
    you must squash your commits before your pull request can be merged.

>     The commit is added to your pull request and the tests run again, including

Reviewer: Is that right? I think that local tests would run at this point (if Hugo is watching for them). Netlify won't detect changes until the contributor pushes to their fork.

Author: That is the original wording, which I will clarify.

Reviewer: Ah. Thanks!

Author: Thanks - I'll clarify.

    **Details** link goes to a staged version of the Kubernetes website with
    your changes applied. This is how reviewers will check your changes.

> 9.  When more changes need to be made, address the feedback locally and `amend`

Reviewer 2: Avoid the passive voice. Also, `amend` isn't a command per se.

```suggestion
9.  When you need to make more changes, address the feedback locally and amend
```

    your changes applied. This is how reviewers will check your changes.

9.  If you notice that more changes need to be made, or if reviewers give you
    feedback, address the feedback locally and `amend` your original commit.

    ```bash
    git commit -a --amend
    ```

    - `-a`: commit all changes
    - `--amend`: amend the previous commit, rather than creating a new one

    An editor will open so you can update your commit message if necessary.

    If you use `git commit -m` as in Step 4, you will create a new commit rather

>     than amending changes to your original commit. Creating a new commit means

Reviewer 3: @aimeeu , I am not sure about recommending to amend commits. When reviewing PRs, I like to see how the PR evolved. When working locally, I sometimes will amend a commit before pushing to upstream. After the initial push, I prefer to see the subsequent commits. Also, PRs with multiple commits are accepted in k8s/website. I realize that squashing commits creates a clean commit history and is another task before merging.

Author: Thanks for the feeback, @kbhawkey. If we don't recommend amending the original commit, we again deviate from the Community's workflow. Also, It's my understanding that kubernetes/website _does_ require squashing multiple commits before a PR is merged, since that is the overarching policy for Kubernetes.  Squashing commits can be problematic, especially for those new to git/github. How about a compromise of recommending that with each amendment, the user does actually amend the commit message with what was done (ie, fix typos, enhance a section)?

Reviewer 3: :wave: @aimeeu , It sounds like you are suggesting a new PR workflow for docs. Unless you enforce the use of amend or squash before merging, authors will do what they can/want. I still think it is OK to make mistakes when creating PRs, write content that requires a number of iterations to get right, and push a PR that is a WIP so that others can collaborate. I _think_ squashing is used throughout the k8s org over amend.

Author: @kbhawkey - I'm trying to reconcile the differences between the Community [workflow](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/github-workflow.md#5-commit) and the Docs workflow to reduce confusion.

![communityCommit](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26799583/66674350-4f9c4880-ec28-11e9-94e4-aba1db2fc326.png)

The Community workflow also has a section on squashing commits, which you don't need to do if you use `git commit --amend`. As to what contributors do in practice - I agree, people will do whatever they want. 

I'm beginning to think there isn't a single Docs PR workflow. Zach asked me to squash my commits on my first two "follow the Contributing doc directions" PRs, indicating that it was Kubernetes GitHub org policy to squash. 

What I'm trying to do is create the _simplest_ set of instructions for getting new contributors up and running as quickly as possible with the least amount of frustration. Most of us would agree that squashing, and any form of rebasing, is a level above basic git skills and can be very frustrating.   

Comparing `git commit` to `git commit --amend` - let's look at the steps involved when a new contributor submits a PR and updates it 12 times (not uncommon in the coding world, maybe less common in the Docs world). 

**Scenario git commit**

1.  new contributor submits a PR
2.  new contributor pushes 12 updates using `git commit` for each
3.  now there are 13 commits
4.  reviewers `/lgtm`
5.  an approver is assigned
6.  the approver says "squash your commits please so I can merge your PR"
7.  new contributor has to figure out how to squash commits

     - compare number of commits on Commit tab of UI to number of commits from `git log` - if they aren't the same, new contributor starts down the road to rebase hell and may end up abandoning the PR
     - go through the process of squashing the commits and possibly dealing with cryptic git messages

8.  new contributor has to push the squashed commits to the PR
9. ` /lgtm` removed because the bot detected another commit
10.  the approver  may not notice that the commits have been squashed unless the new contributor leaves a comment on the PR
11. the approver merges

**Scenario git commit --amend**
1. new contributor submits a PR
2. new contributor pushes 12 updates using `git commit --amend` for each
3. now there is still only 1 commit
4. reviewers `/lgtm`
5. an approver is assigned
6. the approver merges

Of the two scenarios, which is easier for the new contributor?

Author: As an aside, our Contribute docs don't cover how to create a good commit message, and by extension a good PR description. I've written guidelines for other projects ([example here](https://wiki.acumos.org/display/AC/Your+First+Patch#YourFirstPatch-WritingYourCommitMessage)] and will open an issue to update our docs.

Reviewer 2: @aimeeu @kbhawkey I agree it's best to proceed with `git commit --amend`. While `git rebase` is useful knowledge, it's better educational design to build on a command we've already referenced, as opposed to a command we haven't yet taught or contextualized.

      git rebase origin/<your-branch-name>
      ```

      After rebasing, you need to add the `--force-with-lease` flag to

>       force-push new changes to the branch to your fork.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      force push new changes to the branch to your fork.
```

      the branch to your fork, and the pull request should no longer show any
      conflicts.

> 12. If you have multiple commits on your PR, you have to squash them into a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. If you have multiple commits on your PR, you must squash them into a
```

    single commit before you PR can be merged. You can check the number of commits
    on your PR's `Commits` tab or by running `git log` locally. Squashing commits is a form of rebasing.

    ```bash

>     git rebase -i HEAD<number_of_commits>

Reviewer: nit: did you mean
```suggestion
    git rebase -i HEAD~<number_of_commits>
```

    ```  

    The `-i` switch tells git you want to rebase interactively, which enables
    you to tell git which commits you need to squash into the first one. For
    example, let's say you have 3 commits on your branch:

>     ```bash

Reviewer: nit: this output is not `bash` code

    12345 commit 4 (2 minutes ago)
    6789d commit 3 (30 minutes ago)
    456df commit 2 (1 day ago)     
    ```

    You need to squash your last three commits into the first one.

    ```bash
    git rebase -i HEAD~3
    ```

>     That command will open up an editor with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    That command opens an editor with the following:
```

Author: GAAAH! Got me on the style guide AGAIN!  I plead illness as my defense, and will now triple check my own work before pushing.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: nit: this rebase edit list is not `bash` code

    pick 456df commit 2
    pick 6789d commit 3
    pick 12345 commit 4
    ```

    Change `pick` to `squash` on the commits you want to squash, and make sure
    the one `pick` commit is at the top of the editor.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: nit: this rebase edit list is not `bash` code

    pick 456df commit 2
    squash 6789d commit 3
    squash 12345 commit 4
    ```

    When you are done, save and close your editor. Then push your squashed

>     commit with `git push -f origin <branch_name>`.

Reviewer: To me, `git push -f origin <my_new_branch>` is training a bad habit. I recommend *not* including the `-f` flag in a page for this audience. 

I _never_ use `-f` on a push (although I do sometimes use `git push --force-with-lease`, which is safer).
So, I recommend:
```suggestion
    commit with `git push --force-with-lease origin <branch_name>`.
```

Author: I agree that `--force-with-lease` is a better option if you are pushing to branch that may have commits from others. Isn't the assumption here that you are pushing to your own fork, which nobody else can push to?  How about listing both options with explanations?   FWIW this is another case where I couldn't push my squashed commit without the `-f` flag.

Reviewer: `--force-with-lease` is _always_ a better option, and it's a safe habit to teach.

      the branch to your fork, and the pull request should no longer show any
      conflicts.

12. You must squash multiple commits into a single commit before your PR can be

> merged. You can check the number of commits on your PR's `Commits` tab or by

Reviewer: > You must squash multiple commits into a single commit before your PR can be merged.
For docs contributions, it's common not to insist on this. So I'm wary of “must”.

Reviewer: Also, interactive rebase is a fairly advanced Git skill.

Author: @zacharysarah told me that squashing commits is a Kubernetes GitHub org policy, and Zach changed the wording to 'must'  in his earlier review of this PR. 

I agree that interactive rebase is advanced, which is why I recommend `git commit --amend` so contributors don't have to squash commits. The Community's _GitHub Workflow_ "Commit" [section]  (https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/github-workflow.md#5-commit) also recommends `--amend`.

      the branch to your fork, and the pull request should no longer show any
      conflicts.

> 12. You must squash multiple commits into a single commit before your PR can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. If your PR still has multiple commits after amending previous commits, you must squash multiple commits into a single commit before your PR can be
```

Reviewer 2: This section is really good overall. 👍

    merged. You can check the number of commits on your PR's `Commits` tab or by
    running `git log` locally. Squashing commits is a form of rebasing.

    ```bash
    git rebase -i HEAD~<number_of_commits>
    ```  

    The `-i` switch tells git you want to rebase interactively. This enables

>     you to tell git which commits you need to squash into the first one. For

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    you to tell git which commits to squash into the first one. For
```

Alternatively, you can install and use the `hugo` command on your development machine:

1.  [Install Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) version {{< hugoVersion >}}.

2.  In a terminal, go to the root directory of your clone of the Kubernetes
    docs, and enter this command:

      ```bash

>       hugo serve

Reviewer 3: small nit, @aimeeu . Yes, `hugo serve` I believe does work, but the Hugo pages refer to:
https://gohugo.io/commands/hugo_server/#readout
Also, the k8s/website/Makefile has a server target that calls `hugo server` as well as the make targets to run `docker-serve`. The k8s/website/README.md has more details.

Author: ooops. I've been using `hugo serve` since before I started here, learned from an online Hugo class. Thanks for pointing out the correct usage.
